[Music]
five times more likely to die
and we shouldn't we shouldn't have a
situation like this time and time again
black women said to me they weren't
listened to
you know they've they had been in
hospital
they'd had their babies they didn't feel
well
and they were sent home and they had to
be rushed back
into hospital because you know there was
something wrong
now they knew there was something wrong
and they tried to tell
you know the the kind of health
professionals that there was something
wrong
but but often they don't hear us they
don't listen to us
her name was delisa she was 26 years old
she was having her first child she
loved children she found out very early
that she was having a little girl
and that's what she really wanted
delissa presented at the hospital the
day before she died
in a lot of pain she was one centimeter
dilated
they said that um she's in early labor
and the doctor that examined her said
that
you know the reason why the baby's head
hadn't engaged
was because um black women's pelvises
are
different than white women's and um so
therefore the baby would not be engaged
well i
you know as a mom i found that really
strange because i've had several
children
i know the first child that you have
babies head
engages in early labor they sent her
home
and delissa went into full-blown labor
in the early hours we took her back to
the hospital she was nine centipede
meters when she got there
dalissa was rushed for us emergency
cesarean
and um she did not recover from that
the the cause of death was pregnancy but
there were errors in her care
if somebody had just listened to her
telling them that she wasn't feeling
well telling her that she was in pain
if they just listened i can't help
thinking that it would have been
different
as you say people don't listen to us
people deny our reality people
it makes people feel uncomfortable to
have this conversation
but these conversations need to be had
yeah
yeah definitely these conversations do
need to be had
you know i'm i'm 55 years old and
i'm quite ashamed that this is
an issue that i've only just become
aware of
it's shocking
racism and discrimination plays a major
role
in the health outcomes of black people
not only are we dealing with
a biological pandemic but the pandemic
of racism
is also affecting us so we're sort of
battling not just
one virus but two
you